recession no recession where are we
right now and where will we be in 6
months you came here for the truth so
let me unveil that for you it doesn't
matter if you're in the United States or
Canada or Europe Australia New Zealand
when you look at the information there
is actually two stories to tell and
we're going to break that down today
what I like to do here at this channel
in my own analysis I always look at
official government statistics I look at
the data that they bring us that might
come from the BLS it might come from you
know one other source when I take that
information in I don't take it at face
value I understand this is one set of
information also like to get the
alternative stats that's important too
but anecdotal evidence plays a very big
role and this is a really
understated element of getting a full
picture because a number on a screen is
never going to be an accurate way to
measure anything what is the current
inflation rate you might say if you're
looking at some data that's it's 2% well
then another guy might say it's 12% well
what's happening here it depends on you
your circumstances this is not the same
thing as you know when we look at actual
circumstantial information that comes as
a result of your daily life do you have
kids do you need help healthare what's
going on where do you live do you rent
do you have a mortgage is it in one city
or another all of that plays a role
recession likely to hit soon with the
Bank of Canada rate cuts to follow
that's Canada well what have we been
hearing all along in other countries too
uh yes we are going to have this
recession it's not going to be too bad
and then the rate Cuts will come and
everything's going to be a okay because
they're timing it perfectly they've
saved up a lot of ammunition which is
true in terms of what we had seen a few
years ago not 0% interest rates anymore
they aren't doing the whole money
printing right now and let's be honest
they're going to devalue your currency
more and more and more recession will
bring the Bank of Canada interest rate
Cuts this spring that's according to um
dejan it you know we've heard that from
many many
others what will it be though is this in
fact something that we're just being
told nobody really knows exactly the
effects of a Slowdown will W will widely
dampen economic activity Canadians
expect decline can expect declines in
Investments and exports brought in part
by a weakening United States economy
along with the rise in
unemployment what we can see right now
is that people do not have the same
strength that they once did that
strength doesn't come come from jobs and
Manufacturing and no no no that that
those days are gone those days are long
gone what do we need we need a crutch
that's what we need we need an espresso
when it's getting real sleepy at night
time we need a stimulus we need the shot
of adrenaline right what do we need
policy what kind of policy this is the
kind of thing that the government would
say okay we're going to throw cash here
we're going to throw it there we're
going to spend the trillion on
infrastructure we're going to spend
money at the same time they could do
other things with the quantitative
easing of the Federal Reserve the
Federal Reserve could create a program
with the treasury like they did and
start buying corporate bonds that's
stimulative there there's all these
different options and trust me we're
going to get a lot of them it's simply a
matter of time but it depends on where
the failures come first and right now
there is big concern over what's going
on with the banking system that has not
been resolved in this past year nothing
was resolved there and so now we are
starting to see more and more Banks fail
things are very concerning there it
hasn't gotten to the big boys but
there's exposure that we have barely
even you know seen scratch the
surface that all depends on how long
they will keep interest rates at these
levels they need to bring them down to
zero just to basically think about it
like you just filled the room with water
and everybody is just struggling to
breathe like in one of those movies
where they fill the room up and you get
that one inch of water that's where
we're at right now well they want to
bring that all the way down to the
ground get that water out of the room so
that these you know businesses these
things that could never have survived be
you know with a reasonable interest rate
that they can keep going on zombies need
zero 0% that's the way this works okay
that's just the way it is we don't these
days there there isn't you know many
strong companies there's you know people
people's personal balance sheets are
just filled absolutely filled with debt
would you say so do you have maybe a a
sibling maybe it's a neighbor maybe it's
a coworker that is heavily in debt that
just cannot get out of that that it's
just a spiral down let me know what do
you
think who is most likely to get fired
remote workers middle managers that's
right firms and industries ranging from
Tech and finance to furniture and media
have announced layoffs this year causing
anxiety for people who wonder if they'll
be next and that's the situation for a
lot of people look it's it's what I have
seen personally in my experience there's
different types of layoffs that happen
first round of layoffs assuming you know
there's there isn't something
drastically wrong the first round of
layoffs is they get rid of the weakest
link okay yeah you know they get rid of
the bottom 5% the bottom
10% there comes a time though where they
try to squeeze and they start to
actually get people that have a lot of
seniority that just their salaries are
just too high they can give them a
package just give them the seven here
you go get out and we replace that
person either with nobody to increase
productivity dramatically or with
somebody that's from overseas maybe it's
a remote worker uh or it's just somebody
that's just fresh and they can do
roughly the same job but they're going
to make a lot less that's really what
happens in my experience now if that
company is suffering for some particular
reason like their business is getting
crushed okay then they do Mass layoffs
and so on when there are are mergers
when there are Acquisitions we generally
see a lot of job Cuts so keep that all
in mind they're just giving you some uh
examples here UPS plans to cut 12,000
jobs didn't they just didn't UPS just
say hey we're going to pay our drivers
like 150 Grand okay well we just cut a
whole bunch of people I think that's the
office but anyway um looking at this you
can just see for yourself it is
affecting people White Collar Blue
Collar um all over the place we're
talking about AI we got robotics that in
my opinion is not really a big factor at
this time but it will be it will be and
middle management is another one I think
that's going to be a big uh issue for
many who have been you know they got
that promotion but now they're in a
sense less valuable than others below
them that are really the ones that are
doing a lot of that work so be careful
keep an eye on this okay gen ZZ is
splurging on luxury goods to soothe
their economic despair for younger
Generations Financial gurus uh financial
goals excuse me like buying a house I
guess that was a Freudian slip uh buying
a house and saving for retirement can
feel Out Of Reach that's right you're
not going to be a if you're gen Z the
chance of you actually affording a house
is not like
let's let's be honest about that okay um
it's probably not going to happen the
mayor of Toronto said I'll cover this in
another video the mayor of Toronto said
that the days of you having like a
single family home those are outdated
that's not going to happen I mean I had
to read it twice three times are you
kidding me like is that is that the new
normal now everybody got to live stacked
up is that the world now for the most
for most people that what they're going
to do and look there are places like you
look in Europe where single family home
might be very few and far between a lot
of people live in in the you know
apartments and things they don't even
own a place so it's not common but to go
from it being so common affordable one
salary could afford a home you can get a
little bit of not land but you got a
backyard you got you know the everything
you
needed that World Is Gone what has
happened what has changed since then
that is the devaluation of the currency
significant and much more let me tell
you I study this day in and day out and
much more currency devaluation is coming
how do you protect yourself I have a
playlist called how to and solutions
I've got two books that are are very
valuable in this regard and of course I
have my Sunday live sessions where I
tell people the ins and outs EX
exactly exactly how to do much more than
they ever could any other way because of
the scalability Sunday live sessions
themoney gps.com
look at this they're splurging they're
saying they're saying you know what
screw it I can't I can't buy why who
cares why am I going to save any money
let's just go all out let's just use
that buy out pay later that's what's
Happening Here a very worrisome trend I
mean look if somebody wants to buy
something nothing wrong with that of
course I think people should buy what
they want but they should also be
investing they should also be saving
they should also be concerned about what
their future will look like because you
can't rely on your parents you don't
know what's going to happen they might
have a financial burden in their future
that is not present right now so you
can't rely on that Americans bank
accounts are stabilizing after the
Whirlwind from
2020 basically what they're saying is
people have more money now than they did
in 2019 I don't know about that
okay on average families are showing a
tendency to slow down on spending when
they go below historical balance levels
that's what we're seeing a flattening in
spending this is happening different
places in the world it's going on
there's no question about that it
doesn't necessarily tell us that there's
a strong economy that's not what that's
saying it's not saying that people are
smart they're in fear there's a
difference right it's not like yeah I
got control of this I I'm financially
educated not at all it's it's the
opposite it's people are just scared and
they're worried about it why because of
the changes that have happened over the
past and my goodness it's been pretty
much four years this is a concern that
everybody should be paying attention to
I want to tell you look at this this is
just talking about most internationally
traded fuel food and cargo including
over 60% of oil travels via sea and most
of it squeezes through eight choke
points all I'm trying to tell you here
is by the way very interesting chart for
anybody in logistics or anybody just
interested in the stuff um so you got
that but our systems are very fragile so
it can go from right now where we're at
where stuff's too expensive you know you
might have some you know concerns or
whatever to Crazy 2020 everything is Out
Of Reach suddenly in an instant in an
instant for one reason or another and
that is just showing us the surge in the
prices well of course that has an impact
on the prices paid for individuals if
the cost of a container is expensive if
the cost of the transportation is
expensive the end user the customer will
pay more we learned that in 2020 I I
said it probably 20,000 times and there
were people saying no that's not true
so I find that very odd but anyway um
for me myself in my business I ended up
paying about four to five times at Peak
from the from the bottom to the top was
about four to five times on my uh
transportation fees within the US
within the us so that to me is a big
concern and of course it shows us that
yeah it is a price to pay very funny
just uh in Canada we you know this a
very different situation than in the
United States there's only basically two
um providers when it comes to internet
and um your cell phones there are others
but there's basically two and one of
them Rogers um they were saying okay we
got a lot of churn we got a lot of
people leaving they can't afford their
bills here um and he's saying no we're
not concerned about it we're not
concerned okay that's what they're
saying if people don't want our service
no worries why because they have a
monopoly or or specifically a
duopoly this is s you have to learn to
pay more and get less that's the new
world pay more money get less
shrinkflation of all kinds that's the
big concern we talked about you know the
circumstances how-to and solutions
playlist the two books that I got and of
course the Sunday live sessions which in
my opinion is like huge massive if you
want to know more about that the money
gps.com
and don't forget hit that thumbs up
button on the way out I really do
appreciate it supports the channel but
also notifies other people hey why don't
you get the truth all right I'll see you
tomorrow take care